---
title: "Universal Pairwise Interatomic van der Waals Potentials Based on Quantum Drude Oscillators"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2023-Universal_vdW_Potential-JCTC
#excerpt: 'The DFT study of graphene oxide (GO) patterned by pristine graphene nanoroads, where I explored how various GO compositions and nanoroads width and orientations affect electronic properties of this nanostructured material. Similar to fluorinated graphene, the band gap exhibits oscillatory decrease with broadening nanoroads. The emerging edge magnetism suggests possible applications of patterned GO in optoelectronics and spintronics.'
date: 2023-10-24
venue: 'Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation'
#slidesurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.3c00797'
paperurl: 'http://almaz-khabibrakhmanov.github.io/files/papers/2023-Universal_vdW_Potential-JCTC.pdf'
citation: '<b>A. Khabibrakhmanov</b>, D. V. Fedorov, A. Tkatchenko, <a href="https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.3c01221">Universal Pairwise Interatomic van der Waals Potentials Based on Quantum Drude Oscillators</a>, <i>J. Chem. Theory Comput.</i> <b>19</b>, 7895-7907 (2023).'
---
<b>Abstract:</b> Repulsive short-range and attractive long-range van der Waals (vdW) forces play an appreciable role in the behavior of extended molecular systems. When using empirical force fields, the most popular computational methods applied to such systems, vdW forces are typically described by Lennard-Jones-like potentials, which unfortunately have a limited predictive power. Here, we present a universal parameterization of a quantum-mechanical vdW potential, which requires only two free-atom properties ─ the static dipole polarizability $$\alpha_1$$ and the dipole–dipole $$C_6$$ dispersion coefficient. This is achieved by deriving the functional form of the potential from the quantum Drude oscillator (QDO) model, employing scaling laws for the equilibrium distance and the binding energy, and applying the microscopic law of corresponding states. The vdW–QDO potential is shown to be accurate for vdW binding energy curves, as demonstrated by comparing to the ab initio binding curves of 21 noble-gas dimers. The functional form of the vdW–QDO potential has the correct asymptotic behavior at both zero and infinite distances. In addition, it is shown that the damped vdW–QDO potential can accurately describe vdW interactions in dimers consisting of group II elements. Finally, we demonstrate the applicability of the atom-in-molecule vdW–QDO model for predicting accurate dispersion energies for molecular systems. The present work makes an important step toward constructing universal vdW potentials, which could benefit (bio)molecular computational studies.
